---
layout: post
title: "What is simplex"
math: true
---

There is a question troubled me for quite a long time - what is simplex? I have been playing around with it for a month now. But still I have no idea what is the math behind it.

1. Linear programing (LP). 

Programming in this context refers to a **planning process that allocates resources**.

Decision Variables: resources such as labor, masterials, machines, captials, etc.

Objective Function: the criterion for selecting the best values of the decision variables (e.g.. to maximize profits or minimize costs)

Constraint Set: limitations on resource availability

2. Probelms with two variables can be solved by applying graphical methods, but for problems with more than three variables we use simplex method.

* 1-dim, simplex is a line segment connecting two pointes
* 2-dim, simplex is a triangle formed by joining the points
* 3-dim, simplex is a four-sides pyramid having four corners

> It is developed by George Dantzig in 1947.

## Intuitive explanation

> Simplex starts at the corner. It moves to the neighboring corner that best improves the solution. When no more improvements can be made, the most attractive corner corresponding to the optimal solution has been found.

## Code

```python

def simplex_proj(v, s=1):
    assert s>0

    if v.sum() == s and np.alltrue(v>=0):
        return v

    u = np.sor(v)[::-1]
    cssv = np.cumsum(u)
    rho = np.nonzero(u*np.arange(1,n+1)>(cssv-s))[0][-1]
    theta = (cssv[rho]-s) / (rho + 1.)
    w = (v-theta).clip(min=0)
    return w
```


#### slack variables (unused resources)
> A methematical representation of surplus resources

In real-life problems, it's unlikely that all resources will be used completely, so there usually are unused resources.

## Using the simplex Method

1. Formulate the LP and construct a simplex tableau
2. Find the sacrifice and improvement rows
3. Apply the entry citeria
4. Apply the exit criteria
5. Construct a new simplex tableau
6. Repeat steps2 through 5 until you no longer can improve the solution

## Basic variable mix and non-basic variables

#### Basic variable mix:
> The variables that we choose to solve for algebraically


#### Non-basic variables
> Variables that are arbitrarily given a value of 0 so that we can solve for the variables in the basic variable mix 

#### some math
$$a^2=b^2+c^2$$


