---
layout: post
title: "Finish my first project of Algorithmic Trading"
---

So finally, I finished most parts of my project. (still need to maintain though) 

Look back at what I did:
* writing implementation of 19 algorithms (17)
* checking the papers (for each algorithm)
* read other's codes
* learned math (check out my last post)
* learn to contribute & cooperate
* checkout docs & use google (a lot of dudes are NOT using it right)
* do not ask a question when you have the source code!! 
* fix bug by yourself(my friend do not let my change his code on his side, so I fix the bug and push to my end)
* compete in a trading competition (quantics) (I will update on this later)

Thoughts:
I pretty much enjoyed the whole progress. At first I was doing it because supervisor promised me entitled to the paper, but after I have been doing for a while, I figure out I really enjoy writing codes and reading papers. You read the paper, there are plenty of ways to implement it and it is upon you to decide which way to take. And I think math really simplifies the problem (porfolio management). So at last, I was doing the project because of fun instead of wanting to publish a paper. 

Even if they do not add my name to paper, I think I am already familiar with portfolio management problem and am able to participate in trading competition with my own algorithms. So afterall, I really learned something and I think that the meaning of doing this.

I will start a new journey on openCV & GAN now. This field is much hotter than quant from a science perspective. So I will be more challenged. And this project is my own project, I wrote the proposal and timeline and had the whole idea running. 

Thanks to my dear friend ZYJ & the supervisor kumkee.

